::: {title="header"}
\
:::

[]{#_GoBack} From above it looks brown, like a desert, but a darker
brown that lets you know there is no sand, but dirt and browned grass
and centuries of civilization. Hanging like a boot, it protrudes from
the nether side of the "Old World," which is what we Americans are so
fond of calling it, as if the continent is a parent whom we have
separated from and bettered. We may have improved on their formula for
civilization, or we may not have, but we have decidedly segued from
their original influence.

Rome is perched on a plateau through which a river, which they call the
Tevere, and we call the Tiber, flows in between various hills. The
streets can be as narrow as sidewalks, and the pedestrians intersperse
much more dangerously with the traffic there than in any section of any
American city. Because of the large amount of tourists who are
unfamiliar with this traffic system, and the inherent dangers within it,
there can be heard more ambulance sirens in one day in this city than in
ten in any American city. I suppose this proves that whoever first said,
"Better safe than sorry," was not an Italian. Apart from the streets,
one immediately notices that Rome is less of a city than one big
restaurant/museum. On every street corner there is a restaurant,
sometimes the whole street is a restaurant, and much of the time there
is an adjacent piazza with an extraordinary piece of original
renaissance artwork, by Bernini, or Michaelangelo, or one of their
students. There are no gas guzzling SUVs or Wawa gas stations that take
up entire city blocks, or miles upon miles of strip malls which dominate
the modern American landscape. Even trucks in Italy are small, gas
stations are simply a pump on the side of a road, and a strip mall would
look somewhat incongruous next to the Piazza del Popoli. So America is
different from the "Old World," of Europe, I suppose its because we have
so much extra land that we don't know what to do with. We've supersized
western culture and left its originators in the dust, in this "Old
World" that is so small and so behind the times. But in this landscape
there is a story to tell, as there is in all landscapes. And as I glided
over the rustic Northwestern Italian coast with its dull yellow grass
thinly letting the dull brown dirt seep through on United Air flight
whatever, I could not help but marvel at the radiance that dozed next to
me as the sun came up.

Her face needs no external illumination, its beauty is luminescent
enough. The freckles congregate on the bridge of her nose and then as if
its slope was a playground sliding board, they slide down and rarify
upon her cheeks. I always thought that this was because her skin was far
too soft and smooth for any of the freckles to avoid slipping down the
slope of her small, well-shaped nose which would more than occasionally
turn red at the end from allergies or colds or irritation. Her large
green eyes show various degrees of our new brownish landscape in them.
They draw you in with their large naked innocence, beckoning you to come
forward to take a closer look, where you discover that they have
themselves seen suffering too and have more depth than innocence. Her
longish medium brown hair is let down covering her one shoulder as her
small head rests against the plastic window pane. Her eyes are covered
and her mouth is slightly ajar, as it always is when she sleeps. And as
much as I am in awe of the beauty of a sunrise over the picturesque
Italian coast, I am left breathless by her lithe figure.

She woke up as we neared Rome's Fumincino airport as we began our
descent. Her lashes danced, she yawned, and her svelte body straightened
itself to an upright position on her seat. She turned to me noticing my
attention was on her and asked that most banal question reserved mostly
for children in the backseat of a car on their way to family vacation,
"Are we there yet?" She smiled.

"Not quite," I answered, "Here have some gum so your ears don't fall off
while we're landing."

She smirked and said, "Thank you." while taking the gum.

We arrived at the airport and picked up our bags, I had in addition to
my luggage bags also picked up bags under my eyes, I had not slept the
entire flight which encompassed an entire night. I believe it was the
fact that I cannot sleep upright comfortably; although it could have
been the fact that I did not want to take my eyes off of her. We stood
outside of the airport and found her mother waiting to greet us. We set
off on a train into Rome. The train took us to the outskirts of Rome,
from there we took a few different subway trains and arrived at the
station Flaminio.

We disembarked and walked with our luggage out of the station and onto
the street. It was dry and very hot, the streets reflected the heat as
they were built with black stones, which, worn from use, were smooth and
reflective. We crossed a very busy convoluted intersection and walked
into the Piazza del Popoli. This piazza is a large circle a hundred
yards or more in diameter. An obelisk rises out of the middle of it
flanked on four sides by fountains where lions spit water into pools.
Three main avenues begin at the Southern end of the piazza and on that
Southern end two magnificent buildings with Latin inscriptions stand,
guarding as it were, the passageway to Rome's center. I suppose they
were churches, although I never found out for sure. Guarding the
Northern end of the piazza were giant columns with Latin inscriptions on
headstones on top of them. The center of the piazza was lower than the
rest of it, which gave it a slight amphitheater like appearance. It was
the piazza of the people, and the people enjoyed it, all around it
people walked or sat, or rested from the heat in cafes on the side. It
was nice to see people outside in the middle of the day enjoying their
city.

We came to the apartment and rested a bit, but decided to investigate
the city before dinnertime. Her mother had gone to teach a class and we
were left alone in an eternal city, what could we do but explore,
although I was almost delirious from having not slept two hours in the
past 30.

We began walking South down the Via Ripetta, a stone street like all the
streets in Rome, and although it was a main throughway of the city, it
was no wider than a Philadelphian side street. This road, as most others
in the city, is marked by large apartments with restaurants on the
bottom floor. All the buildings look as if they were cast in a plaster
mold with irregularities in the siding. They were beautiful and I knew
that most, if not all of them had seen history dating back past
Napoleon, the unification of Italy, a world war, and the whirlwind
changes of twentieth century technology. Most stood about seven stories
tall with a large atrium inside, and were furnished, as ours was in the
most modern style with solid, bright, contrasting colors. The
differences between the outside and the inside struck me as an amusing
contrast of past and present.

The via Ripetta is a beautiful street, but so are almost all Roman
streets. We walked along the sliver of sidewalk sometimes interrupted by
cafes. Sparse traffic from very compact cars rumbled by on the old
street made of black inlaid stones. And tiny motor scooters whizzed by
carelessly, in no hurry, as if there was all the time in the world. And
maybe there is, but where I'm from there isn't.

We wandered along the street and turned down alleyways based on whether
they were shady or not. Although it was a dry heat it was oppressive. We
may as well have been carrying the sun on our backs. The series of
shaded streets turned from alleyway to alleyway, until our collective
sense of direction failed and we stumbled upon the Pantheon.

The Pantheon is one of the most impressive sights I've ever seen. It
rises unannounced in the middle of apartment buildings and restaurants,
a six story solid stone dark grey edifice cracked and worn from the
centuries and the wars and the progress that surrounds it. A small
piazza sits in front of it with five restaurants on the perimeter and a
small fountain in the center, such is the outlay of most piazzas. The
magnificence of the Pantheon rises up from its surrounding alleyways and
the crowds of people sitting on its steps or dining in the restaurants,
in the shadow of a structure that has stood the test of time, not only
time, but urban time. Urban time is crowded and changing dynamically, it
wants to knock down the old to make room for the new, but this survives.
I wondered what it was like when the ancient Romans

Marcus and Claudio met outside the Pantheon quite unexpectedly. They had
arrived from different directions, Claudio was walking North from his
city abode that stood in between the Circus Maximus and the Coliseum,
and Marcus was walking South from his villa North of Rome. They had
grown up together on the city's patrician streets , and were now even
more well off than they had been growing up. Claudio becoming a master
rhetorician and orator, and Marcus rising to the rank of general in the
army.

"Ho, Claudio. How have you been?" Marcus began on seeing Claudio first.

"Ah, Marcus, my friend it is good to see you. I've been well, what
brings you here to the great temple."

"I'm paying my respects to Mars, who has given our armies the strength
to push back the barbarian hoards attempting to invade from the North.
They know nothing of valor or bravery. They also know nothing of
military science, and we have pushed them back both through their
cowardice and ignorance. They come at us head over foot, tumbling like
logs and we slaughter them at our feet!" Marcus completed this little
speech with an outburst of pride and hatred for the enemy that Claudio
was taken aback.

"Well, the barbarians know nothing of our ways, and I shall be sure to
report to the senate what you have told me concerning the state of our
affairs in the North." Claudio said respectfully.

"Ah, Claudio, let it be so. For if we conquer these tribes at once they
shall be ours forever, but if we lose our tenacity, they may have time
to regroup and gain allies. But even this concerns me little. Tell me,
Claudio, why you have come here?"

"My wife has died." Claudio said and paused, "I am giving offerings to
Pluto and Venus."

"My friend, why did you say that you were well? And why are you giving
an offering to Venus for the death of your wife?" asked Marcus concerned
and confused.

"I am offering to Venus because I am grateful for the love that I was
given even if it is gone. And upon seeing you, my old friend, I am
well."

\

I was jostled from my vision by a finger poking me in the ribs. She
stood next to me smiling, but attempting to pretend as if nothing had
happened looking straight ahead at the giant metal doors of the
Pantheon.

"You think you can just poke me anytime you'd like, don't you?" I asked
feigning anger.

She smiled and nodded emphatically. I tried to poke her in the stomach
but she blocked me. I tried to poke her in the shoulder with the same
hand but she blocked that and I quickly used my other hand to poke her
quickly in the stomach under the ribs. I smiled victoriously and said,
"Ha, there you see I win."

She laughed and straightened herself. Smiling she said, "You're not
supposed to win." She attacked with a barrage of index fingers pointed
at my chest. I grabbed her hands and said, "See you can't win." I pulled
both hands out to my sides which brought her beautiful body closer and
closer to mine. I wanted to let her poke me as much as she'd like and
just hold her close, the way I used to do. I let my guard down and her
hand escaped, jabbing me right below the ribs.

"Ha," she exclaimed mockingly, "there you see I win. I always win, you
should have learned that by now." I doubled over in feigned pain from
the mock-violent jab in the ribs.

"Of course you win, you just wait until I'm too tired of playing your
games and then you sweep in to collect your victory, oh queen of
queens." I said sarcastically. "Let's go explore some more."

We wandered out of the Pantheon's area, not knowing where we were going.
Until we saw a sign pointing the way to the Piazza Navona, among other
landmarks.

"Oh the Piazza Navona, that's where the fountain of the four rivers is.
It's on my list of things to see, lets go there." She said excitedly.

"Sure lets go." We began walking in it's direction.

"The fountain was made by Bernini in the eighteenth century. It's a
great piece of renaissance sculpture." She added.

"Ah, terrific, well here you go, you get to reap the benefits of all
those hellish art history classes here don't you."

"Oh, they weren't so bad except for the hundreds of note cards I had to
memorize. It's a very interesting subject, its just that it can't be
learnt any other way. If only they had a way to assimilate all the
knowledge into your brain instantly, that'd be cool."

"Yeah, and then they'd come up with a pill to make your shit smell like
roses fresh from the garden." I added sarcastically.

"Hey, it could happen. When they make me unquestioned ruler of the
universe it will." She added with a self-satisfied smile.

"Yes of course my liege." I said, once more with evident sarcasm.

"Shut up. It'll happen." She said laughing.

"Of course it will." I said. Then I stopped short and made a deep bow.
She laughed, and grabbed me by the elbow pulling me up and next to her.
She held on to my elbow more than she needed to, and I smiled, a large
smile from ear to ear. Her warm, soft hand was just as I remembered it,
perfect.

She let go when we arrived in the Piazza Navona. It is a long elliptical
piazza, with a large magnificent fountain in the middle and two smaller
fountains on either side. It is surrounded totally by café's,
gelaterias, restaurants, and churches. People are everywhere, sitting by
the fountains, selling wares in little kiosks strewn around the piazza,
in café's, and restaurants everywhere there is activity, but it is
leisurely. There are no cars just people everywhere, hanging out and
enjoying themselves.

We approached the main fountain through the crowd. There were four
sculptures of men, most likely Roman gods I thought, at each corner of
the magnificent obelisk in the middle. Each of them had a fountain under
them and a pool of water under them.

She explained it to me, "Each of the four men represent a major river, I
know one is the Danube, and one is the Nile, but I forget the other two.
You see how lifelike they are. Its because Bernini was one of the
greatest sculptors of all time, he was incredible. I mean, don't the
features just grab you and look real, like there's blood underneath the
marble." She paused, I nodded. "Anyway, if you look at the guy over on
this side." She paused and pointed. "This one right here. Do you see how
he's looking the other way in disgust, holding his hand up to block his
view or something." I nodded. I hadn't noticed it, but the statue was
turning away as if in disgust, his face looked like he was about to
throw up, and he was holding out his hand as if to say, "Ughhhhh, how
horrible." She continued, "He's doing that because of that church in
front of him, right here." She paused, pointed, and I looked. "Do you
see how that church has a concave front?" I nodded and said, "Yeah, so?"
She continued, "So, a church done with a front like that was highly
unorthodox at this time, and was a major no-no in Bernini's school
especially. The man who designed this church was a student of Bernini's
and was one of his favorites, until he built that church, which Bernini
thought was horrible, and an affront to God. He was highly offended and
sculpted this guy on the fountain here to show what he thought of the
church and his ex-student. That's why he is turned away as if he is
disgusted by the church to the point of physical sickness."

"Wow, that's really interesting. Its kind of like an art vendetta or
something. Man you art students know everything."

"Yes, yes we do," she said and smiled. "Just look at the fountains and
the people and the rock, its so beautiful, I can't understand how anyone

\

The old master strode into the piazza, with the aid of a cane. Two
students flanked him as he walked and shared his knowledge. He may have
been in his mid-seventies. His life of meticulous chiseling and
painting, attention to detail, and painstaking artistic development, has
left his myopic eyes drooping, and his once, steady and solid back,
hunched. His skin is withered and his legs quake under the weight of his
frail body, but his mind is sharp. It is all he has left.

"This fountain is possibly my best work." He commented to his two
disciples.

"It is certainly magnificent, teacher, but what about your work at the
Vatican, or our great churches. Surely they give more glory to God, so
that you're great art reflects his greatness." A pupil chimed in.

"I suppose so," he answered, "however, I have always thought of what Our
Savior had said, 'Give to God what is God's, and give to Caesar what is
Caesar's.' He is talking to the people. I have always believed that he
meant what he left unsaid, which is that you must give to the people,
what is theirs. Here I have done that, more than in any other work that
I have done."

"This is certainly true, teacher." The other pupil responded with a
reproachful look at his classmate.

"When I created this fountain, I did it out of a sense of righteousness.
And not for the people, to whom I owe so much. I have always been
bothered by this."

"Certainly, teacher, we understand the meaning of the fountain, and we
believe your motives to be righteous. Such an affront to God, and in the
architecture of his very church, should not go unreproached. Your act is
noble, and shall serve a reminder to anyone who would go about
blaspheming in the way that this man has done. It's an abomination!" The
pupil became animated and indignant at the end of his speech until the
master lifted a hand from his cane to silence him.

"No my student, I was wrong."

"How could you be wrong, teacher, the church is an abomination?"

"The man who built this church that I so insulted was once a student of
mine, but he came under influences other than me, from Firenze, Bologna,
Napoli, and his own imagination. He threw all that I had taught him back
at me in this church, and I was angry. But one should not act out of
anger, much less create art out of it. And I did."

"But he was wrong to have foregone your teaching for the teachings of
inferiors."

"No, my student, he created a new school, and I was angry at him for
abandoning mine. He will one day have students to whom he will tell how
his old teacher, shunned his work and insulted him at the expense of the
public, and he will be correct in his reproach. The church is beautiful,
as all art is in all its schools. We improved upon the ancient schools,
and new schools shall improve upon us. Art changes, I have learned this
in my old age, and one day my school shall be ancient and all that will
be left of it will be my sculptures and paintings, including this
fountain. I only wish that he would turn his head and smile at the
church."

"Teacher, your talk disturbs me. Your school shall live on as long as
there is art. People will recognize your greatness and create art in
accordance with your school until the Savior comes again." The pupil
persisted.

"No, my student, you will one day realize that he who fights against the
future will find himself as I find myself, a crippled old man."

She put her head on my shoulder, the way she used to, where her long
neck contours to my bony shoulder, and her head rests on the soft sinewy
tendons and muscles of my lower neck. It came without warning, roused me
from my daydream, and reduced me to a puddle. My knees went limp, my
head spun, and my mind wandered in its spinning haze to the way it was
when we were together, and I did not feel compelled to mask my heart. I
put my hand around her waist, that beautiful thin waist, where my hand
fit, like a tailored glove, and I was in ecstasy. The epitome of
bittersweet, was that moment in time, so much that I could not endure
its torturous rapture for more than a moment,. So I broke it.

I straightened myself bringing my shoulder up, which pushed her head
back into its upright position. "I think the church is beautiful, I
understand how it was a break from orthodoxy, but I can't imagine that
an artistic master would fail to recognize the aesthetic where it lies."
I really just rambled that out, because I needed to say something to
give myself space and time to recover. She saw right through it, she
always knew when I was being disingenuous.

So she took a step away from me and gave me the space I needed, to
recover my heart's lost beats. "He considered it an affront to God. I
suppose he thought that because no Christian architecture had ever had
such a design, and possibly pagan ones had, I'm not sure, but that's
what I'd think."

"I suppose that's reasonable, I suppose that if he considered the
architecture to be an attempt to bring a pagan influence upon sacred
Christianity, that could make sense. Either way the fountain is
magnificent."

"It certainly is, but this piazza isn't too far away, we'll probably be
here a lot, let's go walk some more." So we made our way out of the
piazza, not knowing exactly where we were, but knowing that we were most
likely no great distance from the apartment.

"Your hair is getting long again." she commented matter-of-factly.

"I suppose it is, it's apt to do such things as grow." I paused, "I know
you always liked it short, but I'm too lazy for the barber."

"And too poor, way to get a job this summer." She cut in quickly.

"I tried to get one, I really did. Plus they have room for me back at
the collection agency."

"Ughhhhh, what a horrible job. You shouldn't do it, it's mean."

"I guess, but its better than nothing. This way I'll be able to get my
hair cut this summer."

"Will you?" She asked with surprising expectancy.

"No."

"Well you should, it looks better on you."

"I don't think so, I've never gotten your thing with crew cuts."

"They feel cool, they look clean and neat, what more can you want."

"I can't believe you're telling me that you appreciate neat looking
things, you can't even see your bedroom floor."

She giggled. "But there's an order to that mess."

"And there's an order to the mess on my head." I concluded triumphantly.

"Psssht." She turned her head mock-indignantly.

"I'd like to see you with your hair buzzed."

"Oh, I plan on it, and I may let you see it."

"Oh, I'd be honored if I could milady."

"Oh shut up."

I laughed. We had crossed a large, very busy street and found ourselves
on a bridge over the river Tiber. It wasn't a wide river, and had long
since been kidnapped from its mother nature and come under the dominance
of our human race. The banks were sidewalks, on which very few people
walked, and after the unused sidewalks a levee stood some thirty foot
high leading onto the very busy road or the bridge which stood some
forty to fifty feet above the deep green water at its apex.

"Fancy a dip?" I asked her

"You first."

"Wanna go down and sit there anyway, its gotta be cooler than up here?"

"Yeah, sure." She nodded and we walked down the steps.

It was cooler down there. The water, obviously polluted from centuries
of advanced civilization, and human development was crusted in some
parts with algae because the river was very slow moving, as if it had
been mellowed by the monotonous rise and fall of the empires it has
seen. Mostly though, the river just looked very polluted, and worn out.

"Hey, did you see that?" She asked me suddenly.

"What?"

"A fish just jumped out of the water, it was huge in the middle of the
river." We paused watching, "Oh, there's another one." She exclaimed
after a few seconds. I saw that one. It looked like a large pikefish, if
there are pikefish in Italy, which I doubt. It was about a shoulders
breadth long.

"I can't believe that the pollution could have mutated a goldfish into
that." I said.

She laughed at my corny joke, she always did that. "That's why you don't
flush them down the toilet in Italy, they mutate."

She turned around toward the river and looked at it after she said that.
I was standing about two paces behind her. So I suddenly ran up from
behind and grabbed her by the arms as if to throw her in the water, I
even lifted her off the ground. She shrieked. But I set her back down on
dry land. I turned around laughing raucously. She was inflamed and came
at me with both fingers flicking at my ears. For some reason she had
always associated ear flicking with some kind of disgrace or punishment.
The memory of this only made me laugh harder.

"Don't you scare me like that." She chided me and began to laugh
herself. I grabbed her hands and immobilized them not allowing her to
flick me anymore. She never liked feeling weaker than anyone else, and
began fighting me relentlessly for the use of her hands. I gave them up
when I tired from the game, and she flicked me again, after I had given
her hands back to her. I laughed. She turned away and walked back toward
the river with her back to me with another air of mock-indignation. She
took three steps and then faltered on the fourth, as if unsure of where
to put her foot. She put it down and turned to me, but her look had a
wholly different quality than what I had expected. It was not indignant
in the least, nor malicious, nor teasing, nor playful. I had only seen a
look one other time in my life and she was the one who gave it to me
then too.

\

An American dorm room, 12' x 12', white cynder block walls, which do
little to keep out the winter chill, a bed with a cover and a tangle of
naked arms and legs and two bodies held close underneath it, this is
beautiful. We look each other in the eyes and kiss, softly closed mouth,
on the lips.

"I love you." I said.

"I love you, too." she said.

The mid-February wind blew outside the inadequately insulated room, and
we heard its high-pitched whine.

I squeezed her against me, and she squeezed me tight too. I loosed my
arms but she kept hers taut for another ten or so seconds. She leant
back, my arms cradling her, and gave me a funny look like futility mixed
with resignation and a sense of indignation at an injustice.

"I'm sorry, I love you, but this isn't right, and I don't know why." She
said with a choke.

"I know you've been feeling like that lately, but we'll get through it
together I mean I know something hasn't been quite right for a little
while, but we've only been together a few months, and we'll get through
it." I said this quickly to placate her doubts with my blind optimism,
but towards the end I realized that it wasn't working this time.

"This hasn't been working, I think I need time. I rushed into this and I
wasn't ready for anything serious yet and I don't know what I want and I
don't know how to love you the way you love me and I need to find things
out about myself, because I don't know why this doesn't work. You're
everything I want."

"And you're everything I want too," I put in quickly, I was almost
panicking, "I don't need anything but you, and I'll do anything to make
this right, I'll sail the Pacific with a canoe, I'll walk on hot coals,
I'll swim in the East River, I'll go on a mythical quest." All the time
I was saying this, and I was saying it frantically, she was shaking her
head sorrowfully. "I'll lasso the moon, I'll bring it down just for
you." I added with a hopeless smile.

"You know better than all this." She deadpanned while her eyes were
welling up.

"I feel so helpless."

"I'm sorry, I love you, I don't want to hurt you, I really wish I wasn't
hurting you." A tear escaped. She sniffled and brushed it aside.

"Don't be sorry, you're the best thing that ever happened to me."

"No, I'm not. I only hurt you."

"You could stab me in the chest and you'd still be the best thing."

She laughed pathetically, and smiled at me. "I wish I could love you the
way you love me, but its not fair to you that I can't, at least not
right now."

"Yes, yes, we'll be together and happy when you figure things out." I
said with blind optimism.

"I don't know. I don't know what I'll find, or if that will make things
right, or when I'll find any of this."

"I'll wait for you."

"Don't wait for me."

"I'll wait for you."

"Don't wait for me." She said emphatically. "You've got so much else to
see and do, you're going to give the world something great, you must do
that. I won't keep you from it."

"Fuck the world, fuck great things I don't care. I don't want to see
them I don't want to do them, I want you."

"Don't say that."

"I will."

"Well then just don't believe it, ok. Please, just... just don't wait
for me, you're an incredible person and you need to do incredible
things."

"How can I do incredible things when I'm miserable."

"Why would you be miserable?"

"Cause I'm not with you."

"You'll snap out of that quickly. You'll meet another girl, and you'll
have kids and you'll travel and see the world like I know you want to
do. You'll be happy."

I looked away, now my eyes were glazed over with tears. I chokingly
said, "I really don't ever want to hear you say that ok." I swallowed
hard after it.

"Ok, I won't." She paused, "I love you, you're everything I want, but
its not right and I don't know why."

"I feel helpless."

"I know."

"I feel sick."

"I know."

"I'm scared shitless of losing you."

"I know."

"I don't know what's going to happen I guess we're going to have to be
apart for awhile." I said defeatedly.

"Yes, I suppose we are. I don't either, I don't know where we're going,
but I guess we're gonna find out."

\

I found myself sitting next to her on the bank of the river. Its
polluted green water slowly, lazily flowing out to the sea like a slug
across a leaf. We just sat and watched the river flow until she asked,
"Who said, 'You can't step into the same river twice."

"Heraclitus." I answered.

"Oh right."

"Yeah, all that overly rational bullshit comes from the Greeks."

She sounded surprised, "What, you don't believe its true?" She asked.

"No, its not true." I paused and looked toward the retreating sun. "No,
if you wait long enough, even rivers repeat themselves."

\

\

\

\

\

\

\

::: {title="footer"}
\
:::
