::: {title="header"}
21
:::

Daniel Magee 6,149 words

3913 Romig Avenue

Reading, PA 19606

(610)-779-9714

\

\

\

Roman Holiday

\

\

By Dan Magee

\

\

From above it looks brown almost like a desert, but a darker brown that
lets you know there is no sand but dirt and browned grass and centuries
of civilization. Hanging like a boot, it protrudes from the nether side
of the "Old World," which is what we Americans are so fond of calling
it, as if the continent is a parent whom we have separated from and
bettered. We may have improved on their formula for civilization, or we
may not have, but we have decidedly segued from their original
influence.

Rome is perched on a plateau through which a river, which they call the
Tevere, and we call the Tiber, flows in between various hills. The
streets can be as narrow as sidewalks, and the pedestrians intersperse
much more dangerously with the traffic there than in any section of any
American city. Because of the large amount of tourists who are
unfamiliar with this traffic system and the inherent dangers within it,
there can be heard more ambulance sirens in one day in this city than in
ten in any American city. I suppose this proves that whoever first said,
"Better safe than sorry," was not an Italian. Apart from the streets,
one immediately notices that Rome is less of a city than one big
restaurant/museum. On every street corner there is a restaurant,
sometimes the whole street is a restaurant, and much of the time there
is an adjacent piazza with an extraordinary piece of original
renaissance artwork by Bernini, Michaelangelo, or one of their students.
There are no gas guzzling SUVs or Wawa gas stations that take up entire
city blocks, miles upon miles of strip malls, or huge expanses of car
dealerships which all too often dominate the modern American landscape.
Even trucks in Italy are small, gas stations are simply a pump on the
side of a road, and a strip mall would look rather incongruous next to
the Piazza del Popoli. America is decidedly different from the "Old
World," of Europe. I suppose its because we have so much extra land that
we don't know what to do with. We've supersized western culture and left
its originators in the dust, in this "Old World" that is so small and
behind the times. There is a story to tell here in this antiquated
landscape, as there is in all landscapes large or small, modern or old.
And as I glided over the rustic Northwestern Italian coast with its dull
yellow grass thinly letting the dull brown dirt seep through on United
Air flight whatever; I could not help but reflect on the circumstances
that brought me here and marvel at the radiance that dozed next to me as
the sun came up.

Her face needs no external illumination; its beauty is luminescent
enough. The freckles congregate on the bridge of her nose and then as if
its slope was a playground sliding board, they slide down and rarify
upon her cheeks. I always thought that this was because her skin was far
too soft and smooth for any of the freckles to avoid slipping down the
slope of her small nose which would more than occasionally turn red at
the end from allergies, colds or irritation. Her large green eyes show
various degrees of our new brownish landscape in them. They draw you in
with their large naked innocence, beckoning you to come forward to take
a closer look, where you discover that they have themselves seen
suffering too and have more depth than innocence. Her longish medium
brown hair is let down covering her one shoulder as her head rests
against the plastic window pane. Her eyes are covered and her mouth is
slightly ajar, as it always is when she sleeps. And as much as I am in
awe of the beauty of a sunrise over the picturesque Italian coast, I am
left breathless by her lithe figure.

Plenty of people meet their first love in college, but it never lasts.
You go home for a time, and realize you're from different worlds. You
formulate irreconcilable differences, and go through identity crises
that you could have sworn you left back in high school. All of this
happened, none of it happened, and things fall apart like a loosely
woven worn out tablecloth.

We were together and in love a few months ago, and I was never happier.
Then it stopped and I realized the inherent fragility of emotion. I
didn't know whether to cry or fight. And the worst part is that I have a
million reasons, and none at the same time. We were two liberal college
freshmen the kind with social consciences borne of a shortage of
practicality and an excess of theory. We planned a vacation to Rome; I
had never left the country. I had an insufferable urge to see the Old
World that we Americans have rendered obsolete. Her mother was renting
an apartment there and teaching Law classes that summer; the opportunity
was perfect until we ended our affair and I was left holding my plane
ticket saying, "Well what about our trip?"

"We're still friends, we can still go." She assured me without
conviction and with that hint of awkwardness always apparent in
separated couples attempting to forge anything platonic.

I meant to reply, "But I love you." The words got to the tip of my
tongue; then they died.

I thought that I might gain some wisdom from the old world for this
matter. This land had been through everything; it must have some wisdom
to impart to me. I couldn't predict what would happen in Rome, because
anything could happen. There were many elements of our relationship
present, and just as many that had deteriorated completely. But I was on
the plane now, and I knew that I could do nothing but watch her as she
woke up from her sleep. Her lashes danced, she yawned, and her svelte
body straightened itself to an upright position on her seat. She turned
to me noticing my attention was on her and asked with a smile that most
banal question reserved mostly for children in the backseat of a car on
their way to family vacation, "Are we there yet?"

"Not quite," I answered, "Here have some gum so your ears don't fall off
while we're landing."

She smirked and said, "Thank you." while taking the gum. Her smile was
comforting.

We arrived at the airport and picked up our bags, I had in addition to
my luggage bags also picked up bags under my eyes. I had not slept the
entire flight which lasted an entire night. I believe it was the fact
that I cannot sleep upright comfortably, although it could have been the
fact that I did not want to take my eyes off of her. We stood outside of
the airport and found her mother waiting to greet us. We set off on a
train into Rome.

The train did not take long at all and when we got out we were in the
city. It was dry and very hot; the streets reflected the heat. They were
built with black stones which, worn from use, were smooth and
reflective. We crossed a very busy, convoluted intersection and walked
into the Piazza del Popoli. I immediately noticed that everything was
old, older than anything I had ever seen, and I knew it. I could see the
architecture traveling through time, past Machiavelli to Napoleon to
Hitler and Mussolini. The piazza was a large circle a hundred yards or
more in diameter. An obelisk rose out of the middle of it flanked on
four sides by fountains where lions spit water into pools. Three main
avenues began at the Southern end of the piazza and on that Southern end
two magnificent buildings with Latin inscriptions stand guarding the
passageway to Rome's center with churches. The name means "piazza of the
people" and nothing could be more apt. All around it people walked or
sat and rested from the heat in cafes on the side. It was nice to see
people outside in the middle of the day enjoying their city. The pace of
life was slower, easier, more leisurely.

We got dropped off our luggage and decided to explore this foreign city.
We began walking South down the Via Ripetta, a stone street like all the
streets in Rome, and although it was a main throughway of the city, it
was no wider than a Philadelphian alley-way. This road, as most others
in the city, is marked by large apartments with restaurants on the
bottom floor. All the buildings look as if they were cast in a plaster
mold with irregularities in the siding. They were beautiful and I knew
that most, if not all of them had seen history dating back past
Napoleon, the unification of Italy, a world war, and the whirlwind
changes of twentieth century technology. Most stood about seven stories
tall with a large atrium inside, and were furnished, as ours was in the
most modern style with solid, bright, contrasting colors. We wandered
along the street and turned down alleyways based on whether they were
shaded or not. Although it was a dry heat, it was oppressive. We may as
well have been carrying the sun on our backs. The series of shaded
streets turned this way and that, until our collective sense of
direction failed and we stumbled upon the Pantheon.

The Pantheon is one of the most impressive sights I've ever seen. It
rises unannounced in the middle of apartment buildings and restaurants,
a massive, wide six-story, solid stone, dark grey edifice cracked and
worn from the centuries and the wars and the progress that surrounds it.
A small piazza sits in front of it with five restaurants on the
perimeter and a small fountain in the center. The magnitude of the
Pantheon rises up from its surrounding alleyways and the crowds of
people sitting on its steps or dining in the restaurants, in the shadow
of a structure that has stood an incredible test of time, not only time
but urban time. Urban time is crowded and always changing dynamically,
it wants to knock down the old to make room for the new, but this has
survived. I wondered what it was like when it was new and the ancient
Romans...

Marcus and Claudio met outside the Pantheon quite unexpectedly. They had
arrived from different directions; Claudio was walking North from his
city abode that stood in between the Circus Maximus and the Coliseum,
and Marcus was walking South from his villa North of Rome. They had
grown up together on the city's patrician streets and had now raised
their positions in society beyond what they were born into. Claudio
became a master rhetorician and orator, and Marcus had risen to the rank
of general in the army.

"Ho, Claudio. It's been ages since I saw you last. How have you been?"
Marcus began on seeing Claudio first.

"Ah, Marcus, my friend it is good to see you. I've been well, what
brings you here to the great temple."

"I'm paying my respects to Mars, who has given our armies the strength
to push back the barbarian hoards congregating in the North. They know
nothing of valor or bravery. They also know nothing of military science,
and we have pushed them back through their cowardice and ignorance. They
come at us head over foot, tumbling like logs and we slaughter them at
our feet!" Marcus completed this little speech with an outburst of pride
and hatred for the enemy, Claudio was slightly taken aback.

"Well, the barbarians know nothing of our ways, and I shall be sure to
report to the senate what you have told me concerning the state of our
affairs in the North." Claudio said respectfully.

"Ah, Claudio, let it be so. For if we conquer these tribes at once they
shall be ours forever, but if we lose our tenacity they may have time to
regroup and gain strength. We are entering a new age and in this time of
modernity we must prepare for Rome's future. But even this concerns me
little. Tell me, Claudio, why you have come here?"

"My wife has died." Claudio said and paused, "I am giving offerings to
Pluto and Venus."

"My friend, why did you say that you were well?" Marcus exclaimed
shocked. "And why are you giving an offering to Venus for the death of
your wife?" asked Marcus concerned and confused.

"I am offering to Venus because I am grateful for the love that I was
given even if it is gone. And upon seeing you, my old friend, I am well.
For when friendship lasts grief may not."

\

I was jostled from my vision by a finger poking me in the ribs. She
stood next to me smiling, but attempting to pretend as if she hadn't
done anything, looking straight ahead at the giant metal doors of the
Pantheon.

"You think you can just poke me anytime you'd like, don't you?" I asked
feigning anger.

She smiled and nodded emphatically. I tried to poke her in the stomach
but she blocked me. I tried to poke her in the shoulder with the same
hand but she blocked that and I quickly used my other hand to poke her
quickly in the stomach under the ribs. I smiled victoriously and said,
"Ha, there you see I win."

She laughed and straightened herself. Smiling she said, "You're not
supposed to win." She attacked with a barrage of index fingers pointed
at my chest. I grabbed her hands and said, "See you can't win." I pulled
both hands out to my sides which brought her body closer and closer to
mine. I wanted to let her poke me as much as she'd like and just hold
her close, the way I used to do. I let my guard down and her hand
escaped, jabbing me right below the ribs.

"Ha," she exclaimed mockingly, "there you see I win. I always win; you
should have learned that by now." I doubled over in feigned pain from
the mock-violent jab in the ribs.

I straightened myself up and we began walking away from the Pantheon.
Not knowing where we were or in what direction we were traveling. She
asked me, "What were you thinking about back there?"

"Oh, I dunno, I was lost in thought. I was imagining how it must have
been when the Pantheon was just built. All things are new once right?
Even when they're ancient now. Sometimes I like to imagine something as
young when it's old or vice versa."

"You've always had such an active imagination. You just walk around in a
daze sometimes. I wonder if you imagine more things than are really
there sometimes."

I was about to protest until she exclaimed, "Oh the Piazza Navona,
that's where the fountain of the four rivers is. It's on my list of
things to see, let's go there." She said excitedly, pointing at the
signpost with arrows.

"Sure let's go." We began walking in its direction.

"The fountain was made by Bernini in the eighteenth century. It's a
great piece of renaissance sculpture." She added.

"Ah, terrific, well here you go; you get to reap the benefits of all
those hellish art history classes here don't you."

"Oh, they weren't so bad except for the hundreds of note cards I had to
memorize. It's a very interesting subject; it's just that it can't be
learnt any other way. If only they had a way to assimilate all the
knowledge into your brain instantly, that'd be cool."

"Yeah, and then they'd come up with a pill to make your shit smell like
roses fresh from the garden."

"Hey, it could happen. When they make me unquestioned ruler of the
universe it will." She added with a self-satisfied smile.

"Yes of course my liege."

"Shut up. It'll happen." She said laughing.

"Of course it will." I said. Then I stopped short and made a deep bow.
She laughed, and grabbed me by the elbow pulling me up and next to her.
She held on to my elbow more than she needed to, and I smiled, a large
smile from ear to ear. Her warm, soft hand was just as I remembered it.

She let go when we arrived in the Piazza Navona. It is a long elliptical
piazza, with a large magnificent fountain in the middle and two smaller
fountains on either side. It is surrounded totally by café's,
gelaterias, restaurants, and churches. People are everywhere, sitting by
the fountains, selling wares in little kiosks strewn around the piazza,
in café's, and restaurants everywhere there is activity, but it isn't
rushed or hurried. There are no businessmen in suits barreling through
the crowd which dominate the streets back home. There are no cars, only
people everywhere sitting around enjoying the day.

We approached the main fountain through the crowd. There were four
sculptures of men, most likely Roman gods I thought, at each corner of
the magnificent obelisk in the middle. Each of them had a fountain and a
pool of water under them. I imagined the people who made this art
standing around in their full renaissance regalia, and I wondered how
they could have worn such things it in such oppressive heat. This piazza
and fountain is so old, but so much newer than the Pantheon. Our new
world will one day be old, but still newer than this. But then I
thought: what's the difference, when it's old it's old.

I looked at the fountain and she explained it to me mimicking an art
history professor at first, but then receding into girlish excitement,
"Each of the four men represents a major river. I know one is the
Danube, and one is the Nile, but I forget the other two. You see how
lifelike they are? It's because Bernini was one of the greatest
sculptors of all time; he was incredible. I mean, don't the features
just grab you and look real, like there's blood underneath the marble."
She paused, I nodded. "Anyway, if you look at the guy over on this
side." She paused and pointed. "This one right here. Do you see how he's
looking the other way in disgust, holding his hand up to block his view
or something?" I nodded. I hadn't noticed it, but the statue was turning
away as if in disgust, his face looked like he was about to throw up,
and he was holding out his hand as if to say, "Ughhhhh, how horrible."
She continued, "He's doing that because of that church in front of him,
right here." She paused, pointed, and I looked. "Do you see how that
church has a concave front?" I nodded and said, "Yeah, so?" She
continued, "So, a church done with a front like that was highly
unorthodox at this time, and was a major no-no in Bernini's school
especially. The man who designed this church was a student of Bernini's
and was one of his favorites, until he built that church, which Bernini
thought was horrible, and an affront to God. He was highly offended and
sculpted this guy on the fountain here to show what he thought of the
church and his ex-student. That's why he is turned away as if he is
disgusted by the church to the point of physical sickness."

"Wow, that's really interesting. It's kind of like an art vendetta or
something. Man you art students know everything."

"Yes, yes we do," she said and smiled. "Just look at the fountains and
the people and the rock, it's so beautiful, I can't understand how
anyone...

\

The old master strode into the piazza with the aid of a cane. Two
students flanked him as he walked and shared his knowledge. He may have
been in his mid-seventies. His life of meticulous chiseling, painting,
attention to detail, and artistic development has left his myopic eyes
drooping, and his once steady and solid back hunched. His skin is
withered and his legs quake under the weight of his frail body, but his
mind is sharp. It is all he has left.

"This fountain is possibly my best work." He commented to his two
disciples.

"It is certainly magnificent, teacher, but what about your work at the
Vatican, or our great churches. Surely they give more glory to God, so
that you're great art reflects his greatness." A pupil chimed in.

"I suppose so," he answered, "however, I have always thought of what Our
Savior had said, 'Give to God what is God's, and give to Caesar what is
Caesar's.' He is talking to the people. I have always believed that he
meant what he left unsaid, which is that you must give the most to the
people because most things reside between God and Caesar. There is
certainly art that should be given to the people. Here is the best work
that I have given to the public. It's good that I have done something
like this for Rome. I may do art for God in his churches and I may do
art for the ruling families, but this is art for the people, to be
enjoyed by one and all. In doing this I have honored Christ's message."

"This is certainly true, teacher." The other pupil responded with a
reproachful look at his classmate.

"When I created this fountain, I did it out of a sense of righteousness,
and not for the people, to whom I owe so much. I have always been
bothered by this."

"Certainly, teacher, we understand the meaning of the fountain, and we
believe your motives to be most righteous. Such an affront to God and in
the architecture of his very church should not go unreproached. Your act
is noble and shall serve a reminder to anyone who would go about
blaspheming in the way that this man has done. It's an abomination!" The
pupil became animated and indignant at the end of his speech until the
master lifted a hand from his cane to silence him.

"No my student, I was wrong."

"How could you be wrong, teacher, the church is an abomination?"

"The man who built this church that I so insulted was once a student of
mine, but he came under influences other than me, from Firenze, Bologna,
Napoli, and his own imagination. He threw all that I had taught him back
at me in this church, and I was angry. But one should not act out of
anger; much less create art out of it. And I did."

"But he was wrong to have foregone your teaching for the teachings of
inferiors."

"No, my student, he created a new school, and I was angry at him for
abandoning mine. He will one day have students to whom he will tell how
his old teacher, shunned his work and insulted him in his art, and he
will be correct in his reproach. The church is beautiful, as all art is
in all its schools. We improved upon the ancient schools and new schools
shall improve upon us. Art is created, cycles repeat, and the world
changes. Look at the Pantheon; look at the Coliseum; they're in another
style yet they are ancient and grand. This will too be ancient and grand
one day, and others will have no idea of the style, just as we have no
idea of the Ancient's style. I have learned this in my old age. One day
my school shall be ancient and all that will be left of it will be my
sculptures and paintings, including this fountain. I only wish that he
would turn his head and smile at the church."

"Teacher, your talk disturbs me. Your school shall live on as long as
there is art. People will recognize your greatness and create art in
accordance with your school until the Savior comes again." The pupil
persisted.

"No, my student, you will one day realize that he who fights against the
future will find himself as I find myself, a crippled old man."

I forgot how she trailed off, but I remember how she regained my
attention. She put her head on my shoulder the way she used to; where
her long neck contours to my bony shoulder, and her head rests on the
soft sinewy tendons and muscles of my lower neck. It came without
warning, roused me from my daydream, and reduced me to a puddle. My
knees went limp, my head spun, and my mind wandered in its spinning haze
to the way it was when we were together, and I did not feel compelled to
mask my heart. I put my hand around her waist, that beautiful thin
waist, where my hand fit like a tailored glove, and I was in ecstasy.
That moment in time for me was the epitome of bittersweet, so much that
I could not endure its torturous rapture for more than a moment. So I
broke it.

I straightened myself bringing my shoulder up which pushed her head
jerkingly back into its upright position. "I think the church is
beautiful, I understand how it was a break from orthodoxy, but I can't
imagine that an artistic master would fail to recognize the aesthetic
where it lies." I really just rambled that out, because I needed to say
something to give myself space and time to recover. She saw right
through it, she always knew when I was being disingenuous.

So she took a step away from me and gave me the space I needed, to
recover my heart's lost beats. "He considered it an affront to God. I
suppose he thought that because no Christian architecture had ever had
such a design and possibly pagan ones had. I'm not sure, but that's what
I'd think."

"I suppose that's reasonable, I suppose that if he considered the
architecture to be an attempt to bring a pagan influence upon sacred
Christianity, which could make sense. Either way the fountain is
magnificent."

"It certainly is, but this piazza isn't too far away from where we're
staying, at least I think it isn't. I really don't know where we are.
We'll probably be here a lot, let's go walk some more." So we made our
way out of the piazza, not knowing exactly where we were, but knowing
that we were most likely no great distance from the apartment.

"Your hair is getting long again." she commented matter-of-factly.

"I suppose it is, it's apt to do such things as grow." I paused, "I know
you always liked it short, but I'm too lazy for the barber."

"And too poor, way to get a job this summer." She cut in quickly.

"I tried to get one, I really did. Plus they have room for me back at
the collection agency."

"Ughhhhh, what a horrible job. You shouldn't do it, it's mean."

"I guess, but it's better than nothing. This way I'll be able to get my
hair cut this summer."

"Will you?" She asked with surprising expectancy.

"No."

"Well you should, it looks better on you."

"I don't think so. I've never gotten your thing with short hair."

"It feels cooler when it's short. Plus it looks clean and neat. What
more can you want."

"I can't believe you're telling me that you appreciate clean and neat
looking things, you can't even see your bedroom floor."

She giggled. "But there's an order to that mess."

"And there's an order to the mess on my head." I concluded triumphantly.

"Psssht." She turned her head mock-indignantly.

"I'd like to see you with your hair buzzed."

"Oh, I plan on it, and I may let you see it."

"Oh, I'd be honored if I could milady."

"Oh shut up."

I laughed. We had crossed a large, very busy street and found ourselves
on a bridge over the river Tiber. It wasn't a wide river and had long
since been kidnapped from its Mother Nature and come under the dominance
of our human race. The banks were sidewalks, on which very few people
walked and after the unused sidewalks a levee stood some thirty foot
high leading onto the very busy road or the bridge which stood some
forty to fifty feet above the deep green water at its apex.

"Fancy a dip?" I asked her

"You first."

"Wanna go down and sit there anyway, its gotta be cooler than up here?"

"Yeah, sure." She replied and we walked down the steps.

It was cooler down there. The water, obviously polluted from centuries
of advanced civilization and human development, was crusted in some
parts with algae because the river was very slow moving, as if it had
been mellowed by the monotonous rise and fall of the empires it has
seen. Mostly though, the river just looked very polluted, and old. That
is, if a river can look old.

"Hey, did you see that?" She asked me suddenly.

"What?"

"A fish just jumped out of the water, it was huge in the middle of the
river." We paused watching, "Oh, there's another one." She exclaimed
after a few seconds. I saw that one. It looked like a large pikefish, if
there are pikefish in Italy, which I doubt. It was about a shoulders
breadth long.

"I can't believe that the pollution could have mutated a goldfish into
that." I said.

She laughed at my corny joke, she always did that.

She turned around toward the river and looked at it after she said that.
I was standing about two paces behind her. So I suddenly ran up from
behind and grabbed her by the waist as if to throw her in the water; I
even lifted her off the ground. She shrieked. I set her back down on dry
land. I turned around laughing raucously. She was infuriated and came at
me with two flailing open palms. She's no Mike Tyson; I wasn't worried
for my health.

"Don't you scare me like that." She chided me and began to laugh
herself. I grabbed her hands and immobilized them not allowing her to
hit me anymore. She never liked feeling weaker than anyone else and
began fighting me relentlessly for the use of her hands. I gave them up
when I tired from the game, and she hit me again after I had given her
hands back to her. I laughed. She turned away and walked back toward the
river with her back to me with another air of mock-indignation. She took
three steps and then faltered on the fourth, as if unsure of where to
put her foot. She put it down and turned to me, but her look had a
wholly different quality than what I had expected. It was not indignant
in the least, nor malicious, nor teasing, nor playful. I had only seen a
look one other time in my life and she was the one who gave it to me
then too...

\

An American dorm room, 12' x 12' in mid-February. The white cinder block
walls do little to keep out the winter chill; a bed with a cover and a
tangle of uncovered arms and legs and two bodies held close underneath
it. This is beautiful. We look each other in the eyes and kiss softly,
closed-mouth, on the lips.

"I love you." I said.

"I love you, too." she said, almost sadly, detached.

The winter wind blew outside the inadequately insulated room, and we
heard its high-pitched whine.

I squeezed her against me, and she squeezed me tight too. I loosed my
arms but she kept hers taut for a few extra seconds. She leant back, my
arms cradling her, and gave me a funny look of completely helpless
confusion, mixed with a little irritation. "I'm sorry. I love you, but
this isn't right, and I don't know why." She said with a choke.

"I know you've been feeling like that lately, but we'll get through it
together; I mean, I know something hasn't been quite right for a little
while, but we've only been together a couple of months, and we'll get
through it." I said this quickly with a smile to placate her doubts with
my blind optimism but towards the end I realized that it wasn't working
this time.

"This hasn't been working, and I think I need time to sort things out. I
rushed into this, but I don't know how to have a serious relationship. I
don't know what I want, and I don't know how to love you the way you
love me, and I need to find things out about myself, because I don't
know why this doesn't work."

"What do you mean this doesn't work. I love you, you love me, what more
could there be to it." I put in quickly, I was almost panicking, "I
don't know how this isn't right, but I'll do anything to make it right,
I'll cross the Pacific in a canoe, I'll walk on hot coals, I'll swim in
the East River, I'll go on a mythical quest." All the time I was saying
this, and I was saying it frantically, she was shaking her head
sorrowfully. And that's when I saw the look, it was something like
resignation and sorrow at what should be and what is. "I'll lasso the
moon; I'll bring it down just for you." I added slowly with a hopeless
smile.

"You know better than all this." She deadpanned while her eyes were
welling up.

"I feel so helpless."

"I'm sorry, I love you, I don't want to hurt you, I really wish I wasn't
hurting you." A tear escaped. She sniffled and brushed it aside.

"Don't be sorry, you're the best thing that ever happened to me."

"No, I'm not. I only hurt you."

"You could stab me in the chest and you'd still be the best thing."

She laughed pathetically, and smiled at me. "I wish I could love you the
way you love me, but it's not fair to you that I can't, at least not
right now."

"Maybe, things will be better when you figure things out." I said with
blind optimism.

"I don't know. I don't know what I'll find, or if that will make things
right, or when I'll find any of this."

"I'll wait for you."

"Don't wait for me."

"Maybe I need to figure things out too."

"Don't wait for me." She said emphatically. "You've got so much else to
see and do, you're going to give the world something great, you must do
that. I won't keep you from it."

"Yeah, that's what you say. If I'm going to do such damn great things
then why don't you want to be a part of that."

"I do."

"I question that."

"Well I do, but I just don't know." She paused, "I don't really know
much right now."

"How can I do incredible things when I'm miserable anyway?"

"Why would you be miserable?"

"Cause I'm not with you."

She smiled weakly, "Yeah Right, you'll snap out of that quickly. You'll
meet another girl, they all do. You'll be happy with her."

"I doubt that right now."

"This is hard for me too you know."

"I feel helpless."

"I know."

"I feel sick."

"I know. Maybe some things just aren't meant to be as much as you'd like
them to be. Maybe that's what becoming adults is about figuring out."

"I don't know what's going to happen; I guess we're going to have to be
apart for awhile." I said dejectedly.

"Yes, I suppose we are. I don't either; I don't know where we're going,
but I guess we're gonna find out."

\

I found myself sitting next to her on the bank of the river. Its
polluted green water slowly, lazily flowing out to the sea like a slug
across a leaf. We just sat and watched the old river flow like a place
that has seen the world change from empire to empire, or a veteran of
war with shrapnel in his ankle or a lonely elderly widower mourning the
loss of his only companion. She broke the silence when she asked, "Who
was it that said, 'You can't step into the same river twice.'"

"Heraclitus." I answered.

"Oh right."

"Yeah, all that overly rational bullshit comes from the Greeks."

She sounded surprised, "What, you don't believe it's true?" She asked.

"No, it's not true." I paused and looked toward the retreating sun. "No,
if you wait long enough even rivers repeat themselves."

\

\

\

\

\
